[Music]
Lightning. Oh my gosh. Hello everyone
and welcome to this week's Stella
developer meeting. Today we have two
things on the on the program. We have
first G. She will present the the latest
updates to Stella Lab which I'm super
excited about. It's a tool I use almost
every day. And then later on Jane also
from the DevX team will join and talk
about upgradeable  contract proposal.
about upgradeable contract proposal.
So let's get started. I think  I think
So let's get started. I think I think
it was in I think it was in December,
early December  we had the latest the
early December we had the latest the
last  presentation of Stella Labs but
last presentation of Stella Labs but
a lot has happened since then. So I'm
super excited about  learning more
super excited about learning more
about the new features and  yeah take
about the new features and yeah take
it away G. Yeah awesome. Thank you
Kirsten. Oh my god I'm so excited to see
like Emir enlightenment in this chat.
Hello my name is Gson.  I'm on DevX
Hello my name is Gson. I'm on DevX
team. We work on CLI, lab, quick start
and more things. , but I'm primarily
working on the lab and I'm very excited
to show you guys what we have what we
have built so far for , smart
contracts on Stellar. , so I will
share my screen and I'm going to share
my entire screen because I want to do
some CLI work as well. So, can everybody
see me? Okay, great.  I think Carson,
see me? Okay, great. I think Carson,
did you share my notion doc? I am going
to do that right now. Please. So I'm
going to walk you guys through what
we're going to talk about today.
first of all, we're going to go through
overview of smart contract features on
Stellar. So contract explorer. We're
going to take a look at blend pool
contract and kale contract by Tyler and
sort of like kind of go through like the
each feature that we built. And the
second of the presentation will be live
demo which I might break something. I
actually did break something back in
December. So who knows it might happen
again. I hope not. I practiced but
yeah I feel like in the world of AI
actually breaking things is now like in
I think.  so okay let's go to the lab
I think. so okay let's go to the lab
the our public lab.
I should have removed this bar but
okay whatever.  so to use smart
okay whatever. so to use smart
contract features we have to make sure
that our RPC URL is ready and I do have
that  which is provided by overcat
that which is provided by overcat
mainet.surbanpc.com. So thank you
Overkat for working on that.  so this
Overkat for working on that. so this
is
the new feature that we built.  our
the new feature that we built. our
team member IA built this.  so big
team member IA built this. so big
shout out to Ietta.  so I'm going to
shout out to Ietta. so I'm going to
copy this contract and bring it
here and this is going to give me all
the information about blimppool contract
and this is we getting API for this from
stellar the expert as you can see I have
like power by stellar expert here.  so
like power by stellar expert here. so
here we have it shows source code of
blend which is how we verify that this
build is you know verified.  so on
build is you know verified. so on
stellar unlike other some smart contract
platforms we don't store source code on
stellar. So what we do here is we are
checking GitHub action and making sure
that the commit that this GitHub action
ran match the source code and that's how
we verify the contract here
and we have about 10,000 entries here.
So it's it might take some time to load
this but this will show you  all the
this but this will show you all the
storage that are available on this
contract.
might take some
time but yeah it like shows up here and
this will be really useful when you have
to extend TTL or restore footprint for
contract storage.  I will walk you
contract storage. I will walk you
through this later in the demo but yeah
we have a way to export this in
CSV. So we go here it will show you all
the XDR that we have. , and like I
said, I'll walk you through what we can
do with do with this later. , I'm just
going to close this for now. And source
code is coming up. , contract spec is
kind of like this is like our way of our
version of Ethereum's AI. , it shows
you the data types that this contract
has and then functions that this
contract has. And later demo I'm going
to show you what we can do with this
contract spec to build  some of the
contract spec to build some of the
functionalities on the UI side and
binding is coming up as
well. So let's look at  Kale.  so
well. So let's look at Kale. so
Kale's going to be a little different. I
don't think it has verified yet, but it
will show
us how big their entry or their contract
storage is. is like almost like 3
million I think.  so it might take
million I think. so it might take
some time to load but I just wanted to
show you guys.  it shows us all the
show you guys. it shows us all the
version history and I'm not going to
Okay, I'll click contract storage. It
has three million entries which is
wild.  but yeah, it
wild. but yeah, it
shows all the information that we the
users want to know about the contract on
the lab which is great. Yeah, failed to
fetch.  we'll show that later. it
fetch. we'll show that later. it
worked earlier. , it might be too big.
, yeah. So, like here has all the
functions and data types. , we can
also do XDR if you want. You can copy.
You can also download the WASM. So,
let's say you're building a contract to
also want to interact with other
contracts. You can download the WASOM
and deploy within your contract. And we
also have smart contract
list which shows us all the smart
contracts that are built.  so at the
contracts that are built. so at the
moment everything is being rendered by
front end. So what we are going to do to
make
this load much faster we are going to
work on implementing back end so that it
will be  more efficient and faster.
will be more efficient and faster.
but yeah, give it some
[Music]
time or I can also
refresh. Should I
refresh? Let me refresh. Okay. Yes.
so yeah, all the smart contracts are
happening. I can just click on it and
then we can just load it right away and
check out what's going on. So yeah, so
that
was the overview of smart contract
features on Stellar. So what I'm going
to do next is kind of go through the
live demo or like live coding or like
building the contract and see how a
developer can really utilize the lab to
make their workflow much better. So I'm
going to build a contract on testn net.
open zapland
recently launched  step 41 token
recently launched step 41 token
standards here.
so look at all this beautiful token.
and I'm going to use James's tutorial to
build like sample contract really fast.
so James is actually  using open
so James is actually using open
zeppelin's mintable standard to get the
contract working. So I already did
let me duplicate it. So I already built
cloned his repo and did the first five
steps. So all I have to do is  start
steps. So all I have to do is start
contract
deploy. So let's go to my let me just go
like this. So stellar keys
JSON
stellar keys stellar key
ls there's address JSON I need to do my
address okay so I'm going to
do is the source who is responsible for
all the transaction and anything related
to this contract is going to be me JSON
and just to make this work easy. I'm I'm
going to make the owner of this token
contract my address and I'm gonna do I'm
gonna limit my token at 10,000 and let's
deploy this. I hope you
work. Yes, it better
work signing
[Music]
transaction. Okay, cool. So, that one is
deployed. So this is our contract and I
think what I want to show
you
is our upcoming feature which is invoke
contract. So the way we invoke contract
on the CLI is like this which I kind of
find it a little difficult or it's not
very intuitive. I love our CLI so don't
get me wrong.
and it would be sources
JSON. And let me actually show you
another feature of the lab which is
a creating key pairs which is super
useful.  because I'm going to account
useful. because I'm going to account
generate account and I'm going to fund
this account with
fbot. And you know when you like develop
on any contracts it can be really
confusing with like all these public
keys. So I'm going to save this key pair
and it's going to be testnet open
zepp
invoke account
and going to save key pairs and I'm
going to copy
this go to my CLI and I'm going to mint
th00and tokens to this
account.
Amazing. Yep.
Successful. Great. So, if I go to
this contract on stellar
expert, we'll see two data entries. Yep,
GB. I just did that.  what I'm going
GB. I just did that. what I'm going
to show you next is our upcoming
feature, which is  doing invoke
feature, which is doing invoke
contract on the lab. So, I've been
working on this. It's been taking quite
some time, but I am going to walk you
through. First of all, I need
my
keys address
Jason, which is this. I need this. I'm
on testnet. Patch this. I think I will
need my private to sign later. No. Was
it styler case show? Okay. I need this
later to sign it. So what I'm going to
do is I'm going to invoke not payment
invoke contract and our contract was
this
one. Go to
this and I am able to fetch all these
methods from contract spec that I showed
you earlier. So I'm going to do
mint and let me reuse the account that I
did here. I'm going to mint some more on
that account. I'm going to do prepare
transaction which gives me this XDR. And
if you go to XDR view, it's going to
tell me that contract address is this.
I'm calling function mint and this is
the destination address and all the
informations about what this TX is about
to do. So good. I I like this. It looks
great. , it also tells you the
resource fee. All right. I'm just going
to go ahead going to sign it and I'm
going to sign it with this. , don't
ever do this. Don't ever show your
secret key. I'm just doing this because
it's a demo and it's test net. So, I'm
going to sign my transaction sign. I'm
going to submit and transaction
submitter.
And same thing that we saw earlier.
Looks good. Let's hope this
works. And yes, it worked. Okay, so we
have all these envelope XDR fee. , I
can go to view installer expert and it
showed me that this transaction did
indeed work. And if I go to this
contract, it shows that mint did happen
and this all happened from the stellar
lab.
And so yes, that worked. , one last
thing I want to show you is our ,
popular
stay wait. , so we have a way to
restore and extend TTL for contract
storage and I'm going to show you how to
do that. So let's go back to our
contract which was this. And what you
can do is that you can go to lab smart
contract. This feature is live. I'm
going to load this contract and in this
contract storage we have this balance
and let's say this balance is like
expired.  in that case I can download
expired. in that case I can download
this go to the my CSV file and it will
show me that there is a key instance is
a contract entire contract instance and
I need this is the contract storage
contract storage key that I want to
extend or restore. Then I just copy this
and let's check view XDR and see what
that  contract storage key is about.
that contract storage key is about.
if it's smart contract value and it
tells me that this is the balance and
address this and let's say I want to
extend footprint for that one and I
think I have to go to my
account and going to get
this and we can do extend this is live
and
contract get this and get the SC
valve right here. I'm just going to do
testing 200 sequence ledger and resource
fee and I have this button called fetch
minimum resource fee for from RPC. This
does all the simulating and everything
for you. And you go sign in transaction
and I think secret
key is this
one. And we can
submit the
transaction. And yep, we were able to
extend our TTL for the contract
storage. So yeah, GBTL extended logistic
expression to sequence 200.
, so that's the demo that I have. ,
you probably won't ever use extent
because I think that should take care of
that and kind of same thing with restore
footprint once protocol 23 comes. But
but you know the lab can support it. So
if you ever need it, just come to the
lab. And that's the demo for today.
Thank you.
Great. Thank you. It was super
interesting to see all these new
additions. And  now I would like to
additions. And now I would like to
invite Jane to the stage here  who
invite Jane to the stage here who
will give an update on one of the SCPs.
All righty. Thanks for having me. So
today I'd like to talk about upgradable
sub which is a sub that defines how
smart contracts can upgradeable up
upgraded themselves and is contributed
by open zeppelin. They've been doing a
lot of great work for us shipping
funible token and also now NFT and
upgradability and this is really a call
for the community to look at this app
and also look at the smart contract code
that they're shipping for us and add
your comments. So as you know the
contracts on stellar are mutable by
default and the mutability in stellar
ecosystem means a contract can modify
the wasome by code thereby altering its
interface execution logic metadata. So
there are also cases where you want the
contract to be immutable because it
guarantees the trustless execution and
application of the contract logic. So if
you think about blend that is a
immutable contract but typically in a
more common case as you know defy
protocols or if you're building a game
if you think about over time you might
want to add more features
functionalities to what you're building
you probably would want contract up
upgradability. So in order to do that
we were working with open zeppelin and
we published the sap and  Carson could
we published the sap and Carson could
you share the set please? Yeah I just
shared it. Thank you. So it creates a
standard to define how smart contract
should upgrade their was and by code and
also talks about some of the caveats you
should think about while you're
upgrading such as a new contract
shouldn't have a a constructor because
that constructor is never getting
invoked or if your existing contract is
upgradable. You should be careful not to
upgrade to a contract that no longer has
upgradability. So you're stuck there.
sorry users and you should check for
storage consistencies making sure that
the the new contract does not introduce
any storage mismatch and also one more
thing we actually describe in the step
is to add a metadata that describes the
the current sim. So essentially a new
key value pair called BIMver and the
value follows a singver standard major
minor patch and that would describe to
the world of your contract and its
upgradeable path over time and there is
a simple code in the sub which you can
see if we go down to that section
and it will basically define a public
function upgradeable and get the owner's
address require o and bas then call the
up the updated current contract wasome
and put in the new wasome hash. So that
is basically the SE and then if we go to
the open
zeppelin s  source code at github.com
zeppelin s source code at github.com
open zeppelin contract
utils
here you can see that there is
upgradable macros and this will make it
so that you can easily add this macros
to your contract And eventually it's
going to be integrated into the open 7
wizard. , and you can decide if you
want your contract to be upgradable and
use these m macros. So this app is
basically out there and we'd love to get
your feedback. Please comment and
provide us feedback and hopefully we'll
get these audited and merged very soon.
Great. Thank you for the for the
introduction and and  yeah everyone
introduction and and yeah everyone
please go to please go to the the the
pull request and if you have any
comments any questions any concerns
please  please write a comment and
please please write a comment and
yeah we'll address it. I think that was
it for today. I I think  this this was
it for today. I I think this this was
this was really interesting both getting
an update on on Stella Lab, but also
getting an a view into one of the the
SAPs that are that are coming up and and
really encouraging everyone to to to
take a look at it and provide any
feedback you have. That's it. That's all
we had for today.  thank you everyone
we had for today. thank you everyone
for joining. We'll be back again next
Thursday. Thank you. Take care. Bye.